Revamp Deploy via CLI Doc (#107)
astronomer/docs: cloud/stable/03_deploy/02_deploy-cli.md

description: "How to push code to your Airflow Deployment on Astronomer via the Astronomer CLI."
---

Once you create an Airflow Deployment, you can quickly push code there using the Astronomer CLI.

## Prerequisites

In order to push up code to a Deployment on Astronomer, you must have:

* [The Astronomer CLI](/docs/cloud/stable/develop/cli-quickstart/) Installed
* An account on [Astronomer Cloud](https://app.gcp0001.us-east4.astronomer.io/)

> * A [Workspace](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/deploy/manage-workspaces).

Reviewer: Remove period here after `A Workspace`?

## Step 1: Create an Airflow Deployment

To create an Airflow Deployment on Astronomer, log into [Astronomer Cloud](https://app.gcp0001.us-east4.astronomer.io/), open your Workspace, and click **New Deployment**.

![Workspace Dashboard](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/deploying-code/v0.23-deployments.png)

## Step 2: Configure your Airflow Deployment

Use the **New Deployment** menu to configure the following:

> * **Name** and **Description** (optional)
> * **Airflow Version**: We recommend using the latest version.
> * **Executor**: We recommend starting with Local.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Name**
* **Description** (Optional)
* **Airflow Version**: We recommend using the latest version.
* **Executor**: We recommend starting with Local.
```

Author: Made this change in my commit!

![New Deployment Config](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/deploying-code/v0.23-new_deployment-config.png)

When you've finished, click **Create Deployment**.

Once you've initialized your Deployment, give it a few moments to spin up. Afterwards, you'll have access to your Deployment dashboard:

![New Deployment Celery Dashboard](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/deploying-code/v0.23-new_deployment-dashboard.png)

From this dashboard, you can:

> - Access the Airflow UI
> - Reallocate your resources.
> - Open the Kubernetes or Celery (if you configured your Deployment to use one of those executors).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Modify your Resources
- Initialize the Airflow upgrade process
- Configure **Email Alerts**
- Access the Airflow UI
- Access your Celery Dashboard (if using CeleryExecutor)
- Delete your Deployment
```

This list was from the old Astro UI - we should add these actions since they're all things you can do in this view

Author: Sounds good - updated.

## Step 3: Deploy Code from the CLI

> First, authenticate to the CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, authenticate to Astronomer Cloud via the CLI:
```

You don't authenticate _to_ the CLI - you auth to Cloud via the CLI!

Reviewer: (Looks like it was incorrectly written before smh, so not on you!)

```
$ astro auth login gcp0001.us-east4.astronomer.io
```

From the Astronomer CLI, you have access to any Workspace you have access to on the Astronomer UI.

To see the list of all the Workspaces you have access to push code to, run:

```
$ astro workspace list
```

To switch between Workspaces, run:

```

> $ astro workspace switch [UUID]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ astro workspace switch
```

It actually looks like you can just run this command without specifying UUID and it'll prompt you to pick one basically - so no need to add it here

```

To see a list of Deployments in a Workspace, run:

```
$ astro deployment list
 NAME             RELEASE NAME             ASTRO      DEPLOYMENT ID
 demo_cluster     infrared-photon-7780     v0.17.0     c2436025-d501-4944-9c29-19ca61e7f359

> ```

Reviewer: We should update the output of this command - wanna try it on Cloud today? I think we have a few other deployment values that show up these days (e.g. Airflow version)

Author: I actually just think we should simply cut this sample. None of the other commands have it, and having it in the guide doesn't help with this setup since the values shown aren't used here.

> To deploy on Astronomer, go to your Airflow project directory and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To deploy on Astronomer, first make sure you're in your Airflow project directory. Then, run:
```

Author: Updated in commit!

```
$ astro deploy
```

> If it's your first time deploying, expect to wait a minute or two for the Docker Image to build. If the deployment was successful, your code changes will appear directly in Airflow.

Reviewer: There was a recent change to the platform where we added some better messaging to the Astro CLI for when deploys are pushed. Can you add that after a deploy, users can expect to see the following?

> Successfully pushed Docker image to Astronomer registry. Navigate to the Astronomer UI for confirmation that your deploy was successful.

Then, instruct them to re-open the Astronomer UI and navigate to the Airflow UI to see if their changes were pushed successfully. (I think we have similar guidance in Cloud quickstart).

Author: It's definitely a fine line to walk between letting the help text guide users and documenting the help text ourselves. In this case, I think it's better to remain abstract about the exact message in the terminal since it's pretty self-explanatory. If we have better messaging in the CLI for this, they should know immediately whether the deployment was successful or not.

To revise this, I abstracted the CLI message by just directly telling readers to open the Airflow UI. This avoids redundancy and should be easier to maintain (should we ever change the message again).

Reviewer: Got it. I'm cool with this!

### What gets Deployed?

Everything in the project directory where you ran `$ astro dev init` is bundled into a Docker image and deployed to your Airflow Deployment on Astronomer Cloud. Note that we don't deploy any of the Metadata associated with your local Airflow Deployment; just the code.

For more information about what gets built into your image, read [Customizing your Image](/docs/cloud/stable/develop/customize-image/).

## Considerations: Kubernetes Namespaces

Airflow Deployments live within their own Kubernetes [Namespace](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/namespaces/) - each completely unaware of the rest.

Each Airflow Deployment is allocated separate resources, configured in isolation, and maintains its own metadata.

## Considerations: Organizing Astronomer

While the specific needs of your organization might require a slightly different structure than what's described here, these are some general best practices to consider when working with Astronomer:

**Workspaces:** We recommend having 1 Workspace per team of Airflow users, so that anyone on this team has access to the same set of Deployments under that Workspace.

> **Deployments:** Most use cases will call for a `production` and `dev` Deployment, both of which exist within a single Workspace and are accessible to the same set of users. From there, you can [set permissions](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/manage-astronomer/workspace-permissions) to give users in the Workspace access to specific Deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Deployments:** Most use cases will call for a "Production` and "Dev" Deployment, both of which exist within a single Workspace and are accessible to a shared set of users. From there, you can [set permissions](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/manage-astronomer/workspace-permissions) to give users in the Workspace access to specific Deployments.
```

Nice addition to deployment-level RBAC here!
